one of the great joys to me about working cryptology is you knew you were
doing something useful you knew you saw the product on your desk
every day that indicated that you were helping out getting to the goals
of the country it's set out for you whatever those goals were and
if you read history you will find out that people been doing this
for a very very long time %HESITATION World War two was replete of
issues that were decided pretty much because of cryptology the battle
of midway in the Pacific is a famous one where the solution of the
Japanese naval codes allowed the American carriers to literally ambush
the Japanese characters sinking several of them and %HESITATION
keeping in Japan for the use of the noble pilots and mechanics you can
replace the ship but pilots mechanics take a lifetime to produce
and they never could replace them of further sealing the doom of Japan
in the Atlantic it was the solution of the German naval codes that
allowed us to win the battle landed against the summary wolf packs